# Mazy McMazeington

This program generates a random maze. There's a begin and an end point, randomly placed.

## Installation

To compile the sources into an executable, just use the following command:
```bash
g++ -I. -c Validators.cpp Utils.cpp main.cpp && g++ main.o Validators.o Utils.o -o <executable_name>
```

Important note: if you want to skip the self tests, comment out the following lines in main.cpp
 before compilation:
```c++
    if(validate::tests() == validate::Result::NOK)
    {
        return -1;
    }
```

## Usage

To run the generator, run the executable with the width (x) and height (y) parameters:
```bash
<executable_name> <x> <y>
```

## Notes

There are minor enhancements that could be implemented, but are not strictly necessary
 for correct operation. These include:
 * Make the order of choosing a path from a path-generator endpoint random.
   This would ensure better distribution of choices for the generator, but since it's
   already pretty random, this would just be an enhancement, not a fix.
 * Make the tests optional by command line parameter.
   I consider this a "nice to have" feature, so I skipped it.
 * It could be ensured that entry and exit points are dropped far from each other.
   This would make solving the maze a lot more challenging/fun, but for me the fun
   part was making the generator and the validators, so...
 * Separation of header/source, Makefile, etc.
   I did not separate most of the headers, until absolutely necessary, because my IDE
   doesn't really get the concept of "multiple object files" and I didn't invest time
   in teaching it stuff...
 * Difficulty could be increased by closing more gaps.
   The mazes generated by this code can be interesting, but maybe more as a real-life
   maze, where you want to have more options to find your way out and not get lost.
   If more gaps were closed, it would be more like an average puzzle maze.

